---
date: '2023-06-23T14:32:24.000Z'
title: Financial Outlook of  Supermarket / Minimarket  Industry
tagline: Pacmann Student Business Competition
preview: >-
  Financial Outlook of Supermarket/Minimarket Industry Organization: Pacmann
  Student Business Competition Duration: June 2023 Role: Data Scientist Course
  Participant
image: 'https://i.ibb.co.com/84Jv74J/image.png'
---
# Project Overview
Financial Outlook of Supermarket/Minimarket Industry
Organization: Pacmann Student Business Competition
Duration: June 2023
Role: Data Scientist Course Participant

# Project Takeaway:
1.	Market Share Analysis
2.	Company and Management Analysis
3.	Company and Management Analysis
4.	Company and Management Analysis
5.	Company Analysis Comparison
6.	Financial Analysis: Stock Valuation
7.	Financial Analysis: Liquidity and Business Efficiency
8.	Financial Analysis: Profitability and Solvability
9.	Top-Down Analysis

## Key Achievements
Our financial analysis indicates that these three companies has struggle on generating assets that can be converted to cash within 90 days or less such as cash equivalents, Marketable securities and Accounts receivable, both MIDI and AMRT showing concerning quick ratio that stuck bellow 0.5 for the whole 3 years, AMRT, HERO and MIDI has a current ratio of less than one, it has fewer current assets than current liabilities, Creditors would consider the company a financial risk because it might not be able to easily pay down its short-term obligations such as their Short-term debt, account payable. Over the past three years, AMRT and MIDI have achieved a net profit exceeding 15% of their total equity and exceeding 5% of their total assets, However, HERO's asset management has not yet been optimized to achieve profitabilit, HERO incurred losses in the first two years and began to recover in 2022 AMRT and MIDI have shown a consistent decrease in their Debt-to-Equity Ratio (DER), reflecting their efforts to reduce risk by managing their debts. On the other hand, HERO has experienced a continuous increase in liabilities, with the largest increase occurring in 2021 at 81%. As a result, the DER value indicates that HERO's debt is more than 60 times its equity. Earnings Per Share (EPS) of MIDI is the highest compared to AMRT and HERO. Meanwhile, AMRT has achieved consistent EPS growth. This reflects the ability of MIDI and AMRT to generate good profits each year, with increasing returns to their investors. On the other hand, HERO has the lowest EPS due to the losses incurred during the pandemic. Therefore, HERO investors need to take this into consideration as it can affect the returns on their shares. Overall, despite difficult macroeconomic conditions, these three companies have shown great financial health and resiliency. According to our analysis, they are well-managed and have put into practice successful ways to maintain their financial stability. However among 3 companies HERO has the most concerning company as it cannot optimize revenue generation using its assets. Furthermore AMRT stands out due to its strong performance which is supported by its excellent, ROA, ROE, Current ratio, Debt to assets ratio, Inventory and assset Turnover ratio, indicating a healthy Liquidity, Profitability, Solvability and Business Efficiency and has good resiliency especially during first 3 year critical phase of Covid 19 Pandemic, Hence, AMRT represents a promising investment opportunity that can deliver high returns to investors compared to other companies. However, investors need to consider its current stock valuation, which is relatively expensive. Therefore, implementing the right investment strategy is necessary to optimize returns.

## Link
[Full Report](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-Wd9srESnietAl3d6pqJepx608yqXT_j/view?usp=drive_link) 


