---
date: '2020-06-10T15:18:59.000Z'
title: Ear Disease Diagnosis Support
tagline: ''
preview: >-
  Developed an Android application to assist in diagnosing ear diseases using
  images captured by a specialized doctor’s camera. The app integrates
  AI-powered machine learning models for real-time diagnosis.
image: 'https://i.ibb.co.com/93TWncY/Screenshot-2025-01-03-192702.png'
---

# Project Overview

Developed an Android application to assist in diagnosing ear diseases using images captured by a specialized doctor’s camera. The app integrates AI-powered machine learning models for real-time diagnosis.

## Key Achievements

- Designed and developed the Android system, ensuring seamless integration with the doctor’s specialized camera.
- Achieved 80% of F1 accuracy in detecting ear diseases images, demonstrating the effectiveness of the neural network model in real-world scenarios.
- Built a neural network for image classification, enabling accurate and practical diagnosis of ear diseases.
- Implemented a dynamic machine learning model that improves accuracy over time by automatically updating the dataset with new diagnosis results.
- Overcame challenges in integrating the doctor’s camera with the Android app, ensuring compatibility and reliability.
- Delivered a solution that supports healthcare professionals in providing faster and more accurate diagnoses.
- Conducted System Usability Scale (SUS) testing on an application, receiving positive feedback from respondents (medical students and otorhinolaryngologists), with a score of 76.88%, indicating the application's user-friendly nature
- Successfully created the Minimum Viable Product along with their Intellectual Property Rights
- Winning the 1st Place at Universitas Mataram Innovation Contest 2020 

### Technology Stack

- Frontend: Kotlin, Java (Android)
- Backend: SQLite
- Machine Learning: TensorFlow (Python)
